# Numerical Method Algorithms
## False Position
This algorithm is a user-defined function that uses the numerical method of false position to determine the root of a given function. The user must also input an upper bound and a lower bound, and the user has the option to input an approximate relative error and maximum number of iterations. If the user chooses to not input the error or iterations, the function will automatically choose the values. The function will output the final approximate relative error, the number of iterations completed, and the evaluated root of the function.
## LU Factor
This function determines the lower and upper triangular matrix of a square matrix. The user can input a matrix of any size as long as the number of columns is equal to the number of rows. The function uses partial pivoting and keeps track of the pivot matrix. In an ideal case, where there is no subtractive cancellation, the matrix LU would be equal to the matrix PA, but due to cancellation this is not the case when you double check after the function has been completed. After multiple tests, I have found that the function does correctly compute all of the matrices, and the values are very similar but not exact, simply due to subtractive cancellations.
## Simpson
This function determines the integral of tabulated data given x and y vectors of data using Simpson's 1/3 rule. The algorithm error checks that the number of x and y values are equal. Due to limitations of Simpson's 1/3 rule, the x values must all be equally spaced, so the function checks for this as well. In the case that there is an odd number of intervals, the trapezoidal rule is used on the last interval.
